Political positions of Nikki Haley - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
		Navigation
	
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate
		Contribute
	
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file
Languages
Language links are at the top of the page across from the title.
Search
Search
Create accountLog in
Personal tools
 Create account Log in
		Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1Economic policy
Toggle Economic policy subsection
1.1Policy in South Carolina House
1.2Policy as Governor of South Carolina
2Foreign policy
Toggle Foreign policy subsection
2.1China
2.2Iran
2.3Israel
2.4Myanmar
2.5North Korea
2.6Russia
2.7Syria
3Social policy
Toggle Social policy subsection
3.1Abortion
3.2Confederate flag
3.3Death penalty
3.4LGBT issues
3.5Immigration
3.6Voter ID laws
4References
Toggle the table of contents
Toggle the table of contents
Political positions of Nikki Haley
Add languages
Add links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
		Actions
	
ReadEditView history
		General
	
What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLWikidata item
		Print/export
	
Download as PDFPrintable version
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Policies of American politician Nikki Haley
The political positions of Nikki Haley have been reported from her career in the South Carolina House of Representatives, during her 2011–2017 governorship, from her books Can't Is Not an Option and With All Due Respect, and during her tenure as United States Ambassador to the United Nations from January 2017 until the very end of 2018. Some of these policy positions have changed, while others remain unchanged.
Economic policy[edit]
Policy in South Carolina House[edit]
One of Haley's stated goals was to lower taxes. When Mark Sanford was governor of South Carolina, Haley voted against a proposed cigarette surtax despite criticism that the revenue from the tax would have been used for smoking prevention programs and cancer research related to smoking.[1] She voted for a bill that raised sales taxes from five cents per dollar to six cents per dollar. The bill exempted sales tax on unprepared food such as canned goods. The same bill also exempts property tax on "owner-occupied residential property" except for the taxes due from what is still owed on the property.[2]
Policy as Governor of South Carolina[edit]
Upon becoming governor, Haley appointed Bobby Hitt as the state's secretary of commerce.[3] Under their leadership, the state announced the recruitment of more than 85,000 new jobs and $21.5 billion in capital investment.[4]
In inviting business to move to South Carolina, she has said:
What I'm saying is, if you come to South Carolina, the cost of doing business is going to be low here. We are going to make sure that you have a loyal, willing workforce and we are going to be one of the lowest union-participation states in the country.[5][6]
Foreign policy[edit]
China[edit]
On numerous occasions, Haley has spoken out against the human rights abuses against Uyghurs in Xinjiang by the Chinese Communist Party, calling for a boycott of the 2022 Olympic Games.[7] She has also critiqued the CCP's "stranglehold" on the World Health Organization.[8]
Iran[edit]
In April 2017, while holding her first session as president of the UN Security Council, Haley charged Iran and Hezbollah with having "conducted terrorist acts" for decades within the Middle East.[9]
Haley alongside President Donald Trump and United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres
In September 2017, Haley stated that "some countries" (a reference to Russia, although Haley did not refer to Russia by name) were shielding Iran by blocking the International Atomic Energy Agency from verifying Iranian compliance with the international nuclear agreement with Iran. Haley said that it "appears that some countries are attempting to shield Iran from even more inspections. Without inspections, the Iran deal is an empty promise."[10]
Also in December 2017, Haley accused Iran of backing the Houthi rebels in Yemen. The Houthis are fighting the Saudi-backed Hadi government. She said that the "fight against Iranian aggression is the world's fight." Iranian U.N. mission spokesman Alireza Miryusefi said in response that "These accusations seek also to cover up for the Saudi war crimes in Yemen, with the US complicity, and divert attention from the stalemate war of aggression against the Yemenis." Iran likened Haley's presentation to that of Secretary of State Colin Powell before the 2003 invasion of Iraq.[11] Haley also said that "It's hard to find a conflict or terrorist group in the Middle East that doesn't have Iran's fingerprints all over it", but she did not mention the U.S. role in Saudi-led intervention in Yemen and Saudi-led coalition's blockade of Yemen.[12][11]
Israel[edit]
Haley with Israeli defense minister Avigdor Lieberman in 2017
Haley has been described by Senator Lindsey Graham as a "strong supporter of the State of Israel". As governor of South Carolina, she signed into law a bill to stop efforts of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement. This legislation was the first of its kind on a statewide level.[13] Haley also stated that "nowhere has the UN's failure been more consistent and more outrageous than in its bias against our close ally Israel".[14]
In May 2017 interview, Haley expressed interest in moving the U.S. embassy to Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.[15] On June 7, Haley charged the U.N. with having "bullied Israel for a very long time" and pledged the US would end this treatment while in Jerusalem.[16] Israel occupied the Jordan-controlled East Jerusalem during the Six-Day War in 1967 and formally annexed it in 1980. The Jerusalem Law declared Jerusalem to be Israel's "undivided capital".[17]
In July 2017, after the UNESCO voted to designate the Hebron's Old City and the Cave of the Patriarchs as Palestinian territory as well as endangered world heritage sites, Haley called the choice "tragic on several levels" in a statement (see Israeli–Palestinian conflict in Hebron).[18]
Haley in Golan Heights – captured from Syria in the Six-Day War and formally annexed by Israel in 1981 – in June 2017
Egypt sponsored a Security Council resolution voiding any unilateral decisions on Jerusalem's status. The resolution further demanded that countries "refrain from the establishment of diplomatic missions in the holy city." In December 2017, Haley warned UN members that she would be "taking names" of countries that voted to reject President Trump's decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and move the U.S. embassy there from Tel Aviv. In a letter, Haley wrote: "As you consider your vote, I encourage you to know the president and the US take this vote personally. The president will be watching this vote carefully and has requested I report back on those who voted against us."[19] The resolution still passed by an overwhelming margin: 128 in favour, 35 abstaining and only nine against. Haley even travelled to some countries that voted “No,” such as Guatemala and Honduras, and thanked them for their support in the emergency special session.[20]
Myanmar[edit]
In September 2017, Haley said that her government was "deeply troubled" by reports of atrocities against Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar.[21] Haley criticized Myanmar's civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi for "justifying the imprisonment of the two Reuters reporters who reported on the ethnic cleansing."[22]
North Korea[edit]
Haley said the U.S. military could be deployed in response to any further North Korean missile tests or usage of nuclear missiles and that she believed Kim Jong-un understood this due to pressure by both the U.S. and China.[23][24] On May 14, 2017, after North Korea performed a ballistic missile test, Haley said Kim was "in a state of paranoia" after feeling pressure from the U.S.[25] On June 2, 2017, after the U.N. Security Council approved a resolution adding fifteen North Koreans and four entities linked to North Korea's nuclear and missile programs to a sanctions blacklist, Haley said the council's vote was "sending a clear message to North Korea today: Stop firing ballistic missiles or face the consequences".[26] On July 5, 2017, during a U.N. Security Council meeting, in response to North Korea launching an intercontinental ballistic missile, Haley announced the US would within days "bring before the Security Council a resolution that raises the international response in a way that is proportionate to North Korea's new escalation".[27] The following month the U.N. Security Council unanimously approved sanctions on North Korea banning exports worth over $1 billion. Haley said that the sanctions package was "the single largest ... ever leveled against the North Korean regime".[28]
Russia[edit]
On February 2, 2017, Haley declared to the U.N. Security Council that sanctions against Russia for its Crimean conflict would not be lifted until Russia returned control over the region to Ukraine.[29] On June 4, 2017, Haley reported the United States would retain "sanctions strong and tough when it comes to the issue in Ukraine".[30]
Syria[edit]
On March 30, 2017, Haley stated that the U.S. would no longer focus on forcing Syrian president Bashar al-Assad to leave power. This was a policy shift from former president Barack Obama's initial stance on Assad.[31] On April 5, speaking to the U.N. Security Council a day after the Khan Shaykhun chemical attack, Haley said Russia, Assad, and Iran "have no interest in peace" and attacks similar to this would continue occurring should nothing be done in response.[32] A day later, the U.S. launched 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles toward the Shayrat Air Base in Syria. Haley called the strike a "very measured step" and warned that the U.S. was prepared "to do more" despite wishing it would not be required.[33] On April 12, after Russia blocked a draft resolution meant to condemn the Khan Shaykhun chemical attack, Haley criticized Russia, saying "We need to see Russia choose to side with the civilized world over an Assad government that brutally terrorizes its own people."[34] June 28, while appearing before the United States House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Haley credited President Trump's warning to Syria with stopping another chemical attack: "I can tell you due to the president's actions, we did not see an incident."[35]
Social policy[edit]
Abortion[edit]
Haley describes herself as pro-life and has supported legislation to restrict abortion.[36][37][38] She has stated "I'm not pro-life because the Republican Party tells me, I'm pro-life because all of us have had experiences of what it means to have one of these special little ones in our life."[38]
Haley has consistently supported bills that give rights to an unborn baby and restrict abortion, except when the mother's life is at risk. In 2006, as a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives, Haley voted for the Penalties for Harming an Unborn Child/Fetus law, which asserted that an act of violence against a fetus is akin to a criminal act against the mother. She has also re-signed a new state law that bans abortions at 20 weeks of pregnancy.[38]
Haley has voted in favor of some bills relating to abortion that were tabled or rejected, including the Inclusion of Unborn Child/Fetus in Definition for Civil Suits Amendment, Prohibiting Employment Termination Due to Abortion Waiting Period amendment, and Exempting Cases of Rape from Abortion Waiting Period amendment. The last would have allowed specific cases of women to not have to wait the mandatory 24 hours before having an abortion.[39]
In 2023, Haley has called for "consensus" on national abortion policy, and indicated she would oppose a full ban on abortion. In a 2023 interview, she pointed to a proposal from Senator Lindsey Graham that would establish a national 15-week abortion ban, with exceptions for rape, incest, health, and life of the mother.[40]
Confederate flag[edit]
Before June 2015, Haley supported flying the Confederate flag on the statehouse grounds.[41] In the immediate aftermath of the Charleston church shooting, Haley did not take a position on removing the flag, saying, "I think the state will start talking about that again, and we'll see where it goes."[42][43] On June 22, Haley called for the removal of the Confederate flag from the statehouse grounds.[44] She stated:
"These grounds [the State Capital] are a place that everybody should feel a part of. What I realized now more than ever is people were driving by and felt hurt and pain. No one should feel pain." Haley also said, "There is a place for that flag," but she added, "It's not in a place that represents all people in South Carolina."[45]
In July 2015, Haley signed a bill to authorize removing the Confederate flag from the flagpole on the grounds of the South Carolina Capitol.[46][47] In December 2019, she defended the people of South Carolina, saying that "some people" in South Carolina saw the flag as a representation of "service and sacrifice and heritage" before the flag was hijacked by the white supremacist mass killer Dylann Roof.[48][49]
Death penalty[edit]
In regard to the state trial of Dylann Roof, Haley urged prosecutors to seek the death penalty against him.[50]
LGBT issues[edit]
In 2013, Haley said it was her constitutional duty to oppose gay marriage.[51]
In April 2016, Haley indicated she would not support legislation introduced by the South Carolina State Senate which would require transgender individuals to use restrooms based on biological sex instead of gender identity. Haley stated:
These are not instances that ... y'all haven't reported on anything. I haven't heard anything that's come to my office. So when I look at South Carolina, we look at our situations, we're not hearing of anybody's religious liberties that are being violated, and we're, again, not hearing any citizens that feel like they are being violated in terms of freedoms.[52]
Haley described such restroom legislation as unnecessary.[53][52][54]
In April 2017, Haley spoke out against Ramzan Kadyrov and the abuse and murder of gay men in Chechnya. She stated that "We continue to be disturbed by reports of kidnapping, torture, and murder of people in Chechnya based on their sexual orientation ... this violation of human rights cannot be ignored".[55]
In 2023, Haley said that the Florida Parental Rights in Education Act, known as the "Don't Say Gay" law, doesn't go far enough, in that prohibitions against discussing sex and sexuality before third grade should be extended and subject to opt-in parental consent, stating, "When I was in school you didn’t have sex ed until seventh grade. And even then, your parents had to sign whether you could take the class. That’s a decision for parents to make."[56][57][58]
Immigration[edit]
Haley has stated that, as a daughter of immigrants, she believes the immigration laws should be enforced.[59] She voted in favor of a law that requires employers to be able to prove that newly hired employees are legal residents of the United States, and also requires all immigrants to carry documentation at all times proving that they are legally in the United States. Haley signed an "Arizona-style" law cracking down on illegal immigration in June 2011.[60] The law was at the time the subject of a lawsuit initiated by the United States Justice Department on numerous grounds, including claims the immigration law violates the Supremacy Clause. Rob Godfrey, a spokesman for Haley, said, "If the feds were doing their job, we wouldn't have had to address illegal immigration reform at the state level. But, until they do, we're going to keep fighting in South Carolina to be able to enforce our laws."[61]
On March 15, 2017, Haley said she would not support a ban on Muslim immigration to the United States should President Trump choose to enact one. Haley said she did not believe "we should ever ban anyone based on their religion" and that a Muslim ban would be "un-American".[62]
Voter ID laws[edit]
Haley supports voter ID laws, laws requiring photo identification at the polls.[63]
References[edit]
^ "Project Vote Smart: Nikki Haley's Voting Records". Votesmart.org. Retrieved November 4, 2011.
^ "Project Vote Smart: Sales and Property Taxes". Votesmart.org. Retrieved November 10, 2011.
^ Wenger, Yvonne. "Bobby Hitt, BMW exec gets new role". postandcourier.com.
^ Knittle, Andrew; Prabhu, Maya T. "Gov. Nikki Haley delivers sentimental State of the State address". postandcourier.com.
^ Martel, Ned (December 15, 2011). "Nikki Haley picks Romney, but can they help each other?" The Washington Post.
^ Macgillis, Alec (December 16, 2011). "Romney ... Receives Haley Nod". The New Republic. Retrieved July 19, 2013.
^ "A tough-on-China GOP is split on whether to boycott the China Olympics". POLITICO. Retrieved 2023-03-06.
^ "The U.S. Is Going Backward at the United Nations". Newsweek. 2021-06-30. Retrieved 2023-03-06.
^ Foroohar, Kambiz (April 20, 2017). "UN Ambassador Nikki Haley says Iran, not Israel, bears blame for Middle East crisis". Chicago Tribune.
^ Ben Evansky, Russia giving cover to Iran could doom nuclear deal as Trump considers whether to certify, Fox News (October 1, 2017).
^ a b "Haley's ‘Smoking Gun’ on Iran Met With Skepticism at U.N.". Foreign Policy. December 14, 2017.
^ "Nikki Haley Slams Iran's Role In Yemen War, Neglects To Mention U.S. Part In Humanitarian Crisis." The Huffington Post. December 14, 2017.
^ Wilner, Michael (November 23, 2016). "South Carolina governor who opposed anti-Israel BDS to be Trump's UN envoy". The Jerusalem Post.
^ "Opening Statement of Governor Nikki Haley" (PDF).
^ Savransky, Rebecca (May 17, 2017). "Nikki Haley calls for US Embassy to move to Jerusalem". The Hill.
^ Deitch, Ian (June 7, 2017). "Envoy Haley says US won't let the UN 'bully' Israel anymore". ABC News.
^ "East Jerusalem". BBC News.
^ Bernard, Joy (July 8, 2017). "Nikki Haley: UNESCO vote on Hebron tragic, an affront to history". Jerusalem Post.
^ Beaumont, Peter (December 20, 2017). "US will 'take names of those who vote to reject Jerusalem recognition'". The Guardian.
^ Amin, Shaan. "The racial opportunism of a rising political star in Trump's America". The Caravan. Retrieved 2019-05-21.
^ "As Myanmar Muslims flee crackdown, US is wary of involvement". The Washington Post. September 9, 2017.
^ "Suu Kyi defense of jailing of Reuters journalists 'unbelievable': Haley". Reuters. September 13, 2018.
^ Nelson, Louis (April 27, 2017). "Haley: Another missile test by North Korea could prompt U.S. military action". Politico.
^ Tracy, Abigail (22 September 2017). "Does Rex Tillerson Even Care That Nikki Haley Is Stealing His Thunder?". VanityFair.com. Retrieved November 8, 2017.
^ Nelson, Louis (May 14, 2017). "U.S. will 'tighten the screws' on North Korea, Haley says". Politico.
^ "U.N. Security Council Sanctions 15 North Koreans With Ties to Nuclear Programs". Time. June 2, 2017.
^ "Nikki Haley: U.S. prepared to use "full range" of capabilities to defend against N. Korea". CBS News. July 5, 2017.
^ Lederer, Edith M. (August 5, 2017). "UN imposes tough new sanctions on North Korea". Washington Post.
^ Nicole Gaouette; Richard Roth (February 2, 2017). "UN Ambassador Haley hits Russia hard on Ukraine". CNN.
^ Conway, Madeline (June 4, 2017). "Haley: U.S. plans to retain Russia sanctions". Politico.
^ "U.S. priority on Syria no longer focused on 'getting Assad out': Haley". Reuters. March 30, 2017.
^ Howell, Jr., Tom (April 5, 2017). "Nikki Haley blasts Syria, Russia directly in address to U.N." Washington Times.
^ "Nikki Haley warns the US is 'prepared to do more' in Syria". ABC News. April 7, 2017.
^ McCaskill, Nolan D. (April 12, 2017). "Haley: 'Russia said no' to peace in Syria". Politico.
^ Tamborrino, Kelsey (June 28, 2017). "Haley: Trump saved 'many innocent' lives with Syria statement". Politico.
^ Fausset, Richard; Sengupta, Somini (November 23, 2016). "Nikki Haley's Path: From Daughter of Immigrants to Trump's Pick for U.N." The New York Times. Retrieved November 26, 2016.
^ Oppenheim, Maya (November 23, 2016). "Nikki Haley: Pro-life ex-Tea Party star who challenged Donald Trump's rhetoric becomes his first female appointment". The Independent. Retrieved November 27, 2016.
^ a b c Prabhu, Maya (June 7, 2016). "Haley touts new anti-abortion law Holds ceremonial second signing of 20-week ban in conservative Upstate". The Post and Courier. Retrieved November 27, 2016.
^ "ProjectVoteSmart Legislation: Nikki Haley". One Common Ground. Retrieved November 3, 2011.
^ Bustos, Joseph (February 16, 2023). "SC's Nikki Haley says United States needs consensus on abortion restrictions". The State. Retrieved February 16, 2023.
^ Brinker, Luke (October 15, 2014). "Nikki Haley: It's OK to have the Confederate flag at the statehouse because not "a single CEO" has complained". Salon. Retrieved January 25, 2017.
^ Alcindor, Yamiche; Stanglin, Doug (June 19, 2015). "Dylann Roof charged with 9 counts of murder in Charleston attack". USA Today. Retrieved July 1, 2017.
^ Lavender, Paige (June 19, 2015). "Nikki Haley, Mark Sanford Weigh In On Confederate Flag Debate". HuffPost. Retrieved July 1, 2017.
^ Robles, Frances; Fausset, Richard; Barbaro, Michael (June 22, 2015). "Nikki Haley, South Carolina Governor, Calls for Removal of Confederate Battle Flag". The New York Times. Retrieved June 6, 2022.
^ Scott, Eugene (July 10, 2015). "Nikki Haley: Confederate flag 'should have never been there'". CNN. Retrieved April 12, 2016.
^ "South Carolina Confederate Battle Flag Removal Bill Signing Ceremony". C-SPAN. July 9, 2015.
^ "South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley Signs Confederate Flag Bill Into Law". NPR. July 9, 2015.
^ Santucci, Jeanine. "Nikki Haley: Confederate flag could not be taken down in South Carolina in today's 'outrage culture'". USA Today. Retrieved 2019-12-21.
^ Ortiz, Aimee (2019-12-07). "Nikki Haley's Confederate Flag Comments Spark Backlash". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved 2019-12-21.
^ "S.C. governor calls for death penalty in church shooting". The Boston Globe. June 19, 2015. Retrieved June 19, 2015.
^ https://www.thestate.com/news/politics-government/politics-columns-blogs/the-buzz/article13829042.html
^ a b Stern, Mark (April 8, 2016). "Listen to a Republican Governor Explain Why Anti-Trans Bathroom Laws Are Unnecessary". ppSlate. Retrieved April 12, 2016.
^ "SC governor says bill similar to HB2 not necessary". WNCN – North Carolina News. April 7, 2016. Retrieved April 12, 2016.
^ Berman, Mark (April 7, 2016). "South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley says her state doesn't need transgender bathroom law". The Washington Post. Retrieved April 12, 2016.
^ "Nikki Haley: Reported Killings of Gay People in Chechnya 'Cannot Be Ignored'". Time. Retrieved November 8, 2017.
^ Pengelly, Martin (2023-02-17). "Nikki Haley says Florida's 'don't say gay' law does not go 'far enough'". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 2023-07-12.
^ Shapero, Julia (2023-02-17). "Haley says DeSantis didn't go 'far enough' with 'Don't Say Gay'". The Hill. Retrieved 2023-07-12.
^ "On 2024 trail, Nikki Haley says DeSantis 'Don't Say Gay' bill didn't go far enough: Live political updates". USA TODAY. Retrieved 2023-07-12.
^ "Gov. Nikki Haley signs illegal immigration police checks law". The Post and Courier. June 26, 2011. Retrieved June 26, 2011.
^ Richard Fausset (January 18, 2012). "For Romney, immigration issue offers an opportunity". Los Angeles Times.
^ Terry Frieden (October 31, 2011). "U.S. sues South Carolina over immigration law". CNN.
^ Kim, Eun Kyung (March 16, 2017). "UN Ambassador Nikki Haley on Today: 'I will never support a Muslim ban'". Today.
^ Collins, Jeffrey (January 22, 2012). "Nikki Haley Excoriated By Black Leaders Over South Carolina Voter ID Law". The Huffington Post.
vte(← 2020) 2024 United States presidential election (2028 →)
2024 United States elections
Polls
national
state
Timeline
Democratic Party
Primaries
Convention
Candidates
Declared
Joe Biden
campaign
endorsements
positions
Terrisa Bukovinac
Joe Exotic
Cenk Uygur
Marianne Williamson
campaign
Decision pending
Joe Manchin
Dean Phillips
Withdrew before the primaries
Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
Jerome Segal
Republican Party
Primaries
Debates and forums
Convention
Polls
Endorsements
Candidates
Declared
Ryan Binkley
Doug Burgum
campaign
John Anthony Castro
Chris Christie
campaign
Ron DeSantis
campaign
endorsements
positions
Larry Elder
campaign
Nikki Haley
campaign
positions
Asa Hutchinson
campaign
E. W. Jackson
Mike Pence
campaign
positions
Vivek Ramaswamy
campaign
Tim Scott
campaign
Donald Trump
campaign
endorsements
opposition
positions
Expressed interest
John Bolton
Rick Perry
Potential
Glenn Youngkin
Withdrew before the primaries
Will Hurd
Perry Johnson
Steve Laffey
Corey Stapleton
Francis Suarez
Libertarian Party
Primaries
Candidates
Declared
Chase Oliver
Michael Rectenwald
Withdrew before the primaries
Joe Exotic
Green Party
Primaries
Candidates
Withdrew before the primaries
Emanuel Pastreich
Cornel West
Other candidates
Candidates
Declared
Joseph "Afroman" Foreman
Robert F. Kennedy Jr.
campaign
Taylor Marshall
Peter Sonski
Vermin Supreme
Cornel West
campaign
Potential
Bill Cassidy
Liz Cheney
Tulsi Gabbard
Larry Hogan
Joe Manchin
William H. McRaven
Jesse Ventura
Withdrew
Kanye West
campaign
positions
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Political_positions_of_Nikki_Haley&oldid=1181849764"
Categories: Nikki HaleyPolitical positions of state governors of the United StatesPolitical positions of the 2024 United States presidential candidatesHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description matches Wikidata
 This page was last edited on 25 October 2023, at 16:18 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 4.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Toggle limited content width